All fantasy creatures MUD?
Dream is name of OS
Werewolves change at full moon, can't at new moon, and can't wear EQ as a wolf, though it is naturally stronger
lockers to rent, autopay, 10-20 item storage, weight does not matter
down is bank + lockers, north of that is post office
polyforms use 'stance' to change to creatures, some eq is wearable...
some eq wears out???
dragon tail spike
uni tail ribbons?
Recall mob: _old_ dragon (black)     *looks around deciding who to eat*
money is pracs, exp is levels
different breath weapons?
unicorns have seperate spell set
black unicorns pkok?  More aggro
5+ spell packs for unis?
start with 1-3(?) classes, more cost money
clark bar is rare item, adds stats?
channel usage shows externally
TP is gossip channel
spell to take you to a room you have visited, lock when there, visit later?  *your surroundings fade away...*
terminate after x deaths in an hour???
ENCOURAGE SPELLS
show damage
recharge time between spells? -go down as get better
have good help files on all spells and skills
blindness-drops %hit rate?
plate scales and horn at smithy
smaller races less str more dex
donations area only own lvl stuff around? -special list command?
need sack to carry anything??? -increase inv size over time?
dragon only on list at specific time?
dex + hroll???
str + droll???
etherial main city
whisper shows whole words...
more exp for longer killing?
level xp reset if die?
driud library-hidden room with rare skill and spell books
QP for entering hidden room.  New chat channel too
Unicorn coat White-Bronze-Silver-Gold-Platinum
Dragon scale pattern upgarde, type upgrade, claws upgrade
Newbie school is a dream, wake up is when you leave, keeping eq.  hmm...
Also, transported in, unconsious, remember stuff later?
Rare repop in donations?
have pockets in stuff, ect.  jacket.pocket ?
Can equip a secondary
trail - follow one room back
follow - same
long range Would need to have knowlege of surrounding rooms:
full combat msgs
group same as Shades
option to turn on/off missed msgs
arrow(number) equip to quiver
attack pulls from quiver, shoot <arrow> <target> specify arrow
item building workshops off of /
arrow quality makes a diff
feathers, shaft(straightness, self, accuracy), type of head(damage)
lore skill
police wimpy but w/slay swords
think about blocking/parrying (1/20)
being low on mana, makes secondary effects
blood loss is hp loss/tick like shades
skill max based on lvl?
arrow 5% chance of hitting thing in room (max distance based on str), +based on skill
doors seperatly visible?
walkin/out
cname - color name
tail - Last name
title seperate title
learning? - unskilled slower learn rate, get skilled gives you a min, faster curve?
combat skills effective based on relative level?  Done with %, etc.  How then less powerful on higher level mobs?
use the x*<item> syntax in commands?
gold unis as well?  Class by color?
an echo command
Able to set a clock offset
Have some global "What are you talking about?" message, so only have to change once.
For skills, can keep roughly same lvl in str, but can upgrade the skill (to bash2, or something)
Channels: global, area (new one - kinda, is yell), group, room, etc?

No levels - level up based on skill / class usage
Fighting is glorified bounty hunting - get paid by central autority per mob per type, etc
Crafting classes are then equal to fighting, both have equally pointless jobs
